# 1.6 Assignment

### Programming

In the file `Assignments\Unit01\06_bitwise_operators\Assignment06.java` complete the following methods. Use the `main` method to test your methods (an example is given for each for a basic test).

1.  `countSetBits(int n)`

    Use bitwise and to write a method that returns the number of bits set to 1 of a positive integer.

    **For example:**

    `countSetBits(17)` should return `2` since 17 is 10001 in binary and has 2 bits set to 1.

    If the argument passed in is negative _throw_ an `IllegalArgumentException`.
2.  `firstSetBitPosition(int n)`

    Use one or more bitwise operators to write this method so that given an integer, it returns the position of the first set-bit (1) from the right. &#x20;

    If `n` is not positive, throw an `IllegalArgumentException`.

    **For example:**

    `n = 18` should return 2, since 18 in binary is 10010, the 2nd bit from the right is the first set-bit.
3.  `isPowerOfTwo(int n)`

    Use one or more bitwise operators to write this method so that it returns `true` if `n` is a power of 2 and `false` otherwise.

    **For example:**

    `n == 16` should return `true`, and `n==7` should return `false`.

### Non-programming

Practice using bitwise operators by evaluating the following (by hand). Check your answers by adding code to the main method printing the results.  Questions like this **will be on the quiz**.

1. `54 >> 3`
2. `10 << 3`
3. `24 | 5`
4. `24 & 5`
5. `24 ^ 5`

### Submission

This will be the first assignment where auto-grading really makes sense.  We will be trying out a website called [codePost](https://codepost.io/signup/join?code=YEAKS25N6Q).  Click the link to join the class.  You should see this assignment listed.  Submit your `Assignment06.java` file and review the test results. &#x20;

{% hint style="danger" %}
Don't forget to commit and push your changes!
{% endhint %}
