# 0.1 Assignment

## Cloning the Repository

1. Go to [https://github.com](https://github.com) and create a new account using a **non-school** e-mail address.
2. Open the _repository_ linked from Google Classroom for this course.
3. **Fork** the repository
4. Go to "Settings" in the forked repository, then "Collaborators and teams"
5. Click "Add people" and type in `chpurdy`, select "Chad Purdy" and set my role to "Read"
6. Go back to the "Code" tab and open the forked repository in **Github Desktop**
   * Click the **Code** button, then choose "Open with GitHub Desktop"
7. Click the "Clone" button in GitHub Desktop (pay attention where it creates the folder)
8. Open Visual Studio Code, select `File` -> `Open Folder` and open the top folder of the repository.
9. In the Explorer, find `Assignments` -> `Unit00` -> `README.md` and follow the instructions below.

***

#### Before continuing, briefly review the **markdown syntax** and **Github Flavored Markdown** pamphlet.

## GitHub Flavored Markdown Practice

Edit the file `README.md` by doing each of the following:

1. Make the **header** of the file `GitHub Flavored Markdown Practice`
2. Make a **subheading** (smaller) your first and last name
3. Right-click the file in the explorer (to the left) and choose `Open Preview` to see what it looks like so far.
   * Do this as you continue to be sure things are still looking right.
4. Create a **table** showing your class schedule for this year
   * Column headers should be `Period`, `Class Name`, `Teacher`, and `Classroom`
5. Below this, create an **unordered list** of 3 goals you have for this year in this class.
6. Save the file (ctrl-s)

#### Preview the file one more time to be sure it looks ok.

***

Open the `README.md` file in the top-level directory and change the text from "Your Name" to your actual name. :smiley:

***

## Committing and Pushing Your Changes

1. Go back to GitHub Desktop
   * You should see a list of changes that you made
   * Feel free to explore a little, additions will show a `+` will things you removed will show a `-`
2. In the box that says "Summary (required)" type in "completed all instructions"
   * Note: If you didn't finish it all before the end of the period, change the summary to "completed up through..." whatever you completed. Then when you do finish, the summary would say "completed all instructions"
3. Click the "Commit to main" button
4. Click the blue "Push origin" button
5. Go back to your forked repository on GitHub (web site) and refresh. Be sure the link to this assignment works and that you see the changes in that folder.

***

## Important

In order for changes to be sent to GitHub, there are always 2 steps:

1. Commit the changes with a commit message (the summary of what you changed)
2. Push origin (actually uploads to GitHub)
